CADRE 2026 EPIC Session Instructions
====================================

This page describes how to run the CADRE 2026 FV3-JEDI hybrid 3D-Var
training experiments on the Hercules HPC system and how to apply the
UFS-DA Diagnostics toolkit to the resulting outputs.

Logging Into Hercules
---------------------

Use SSH with X11 forwarding enabled:

.. code-block:: bash

    ssh -X YOUR_USERID@hercules-login.hpc.msstate.edu

Clone the CADRE-DA-training Repository into Your EPIC Workspace
---------------------------------------------------------------

On Hercules, each user should clone the training repository inside their
EPIC project directory under /work2/noaa/epic/$USER. This keeps the job
scripts, YAML files, and experiment outputs in the same workspace.

.. code-block:: bash

    cd /work2/noaa/epic/$USER
    git clone https://github.com/chan-hoo/CADRE-DA-training.git
    cd CADRE-DA-training/tutorial

The job card script is located at:

.. code-block:: text

    tutorial/run_3dvar_hercules.sh

Running the CADRE 2026 Experiments
----------------------------------

The FV3-JEDI and GDASApp executables are prebuilt on Hercules. The
training experiments for Day 1, Day 2, and Day 3 are executed using the
job card script:

.. code-block:: text

    https://github.com/chan-hoo/CADRE-DA-training/blob/feature/tutorial/tutorial/run_3dvar_hercules.sh

Copy the YAML configuration files for each day into your working
directory. For example, copy the Day 1 YAMLs:

.. code-block:: bash

    cd /path/to/CADRE-DA-training/tutorial

    cp ./input_yaml/Day1/*.yaml ./input_yaml

Submit the job card using SLURM:

.. code-block:: bash

    sbatch run_3dvar_hercules.sh

Monitor job progress:

.. code-block:: bash

    squeue -u $USER

Prebuilt Experiment Outputs
---------------------------

All prebuilt CADRE 2026 experiment outputs are available at:

.. code-block:: text

    /work2/noaa/epic/CADRE2026

Example directory listing:

.. code-block:: text

    cadre26.8434573.day1
    cadre26.8487509.day2_hyb_wght
    cadre26.8487556.day2_nicas-length-scale
    cadre26.8487557.day3_thinning
    cadre26.8697363_atms-err-08
    cadre26.8697429_atms-err-03
    cadre26-diagnostics
    grid

Running Diagnostics After Jobs Complete
---------------------------------------

Once the FV3-JEDI jobs finish, the UFS-DA Diagnostics toolkit can be
applied to the output files. The following commands correspond to the
Quickstart examples, adapted for the CADRE 2026 experiment structure.

The diagnostics toolkit is installed at:

.. code-block:: text

    /work/noaa/epic/jongkim/ufs_da_diagnostics

Activate the preconfigured environment:

.. code-block:: bash

    source /work/noaa/epic/jongkim/hercules.anaconda

Day 1: Control Experiment Diagnostics
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: bash

    ufsda-spectra-ana-inc --yaml spectra_day1.yaml
    ufsda-inc-maps --yaml increment_maps_day1.yaml
    ufsda-obs-diag --yaml obs_diag_day1.yaml
    ufsda-jedi-log /work2/noaa/epic/CADRE2026/cadre26.8434573.day1/OUTPUT.fv3jedi \
        --output day1_log_report.txt

Day 2: Background Error Experiments (Hybrid Weight, NICAS)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: bash

    ufsda-spectra-ana-inc --yaml spectra_day2.yaml
    ufsda-inc-maps --yaml increment_maps_day2.yaml
    ufsda-obs-diag --yaml obs_diag_day2.yaml
    ufsda-jedi-log /work2/noaa/epic/CADRE2026/cadre26.8487509.day2_hyb_wght/OUTPUT.fv3jedi \
        --output day2_log_report.txt

Day 3: Observation Experiments (Thinning, Obs Error)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: bash

    ufsda-spectra-ana-inc --yaml spectra_day3.yaml
    ufsda-inc-maps --yaml increment_maps_day3.yaml
    ufsda-obs-diag --yaml obs_diag_day3.yaml
    ufsda-jedi-log /work2/noaa/epic/CADRE2026/cadre26.8487565.day3_obs_error/OUTPUT.fv3jedi \
        --output day3_log_report.txt

Notes
-----

* All YAML files referenced above should be copied from the CADRE-DA-training
  repository into your working input_yaml directory.
* The diagnostics output directories will be created automatically.
* Figures and tables generated by the diagnostics toolkit can be used
  directly in the CADRE 2026 training slides and documentation.
